So that's what we're
gonna be covering today.
And let's talk about the logistics
of how this workshop operates.
So hopefully, you have a repo
setup locally on your machine.
You'll notice we have three directories
that have different apps in them.
So the example directory will reference
this in one of the exercises, so
don't worry about that one for now.
The exercise directory was where you're
going to be spending most of your time,
and the final directory is where the
finished version of the exercises resides.
And in the exercise directory each
one of these is a full remix app and
so the app that we're using
is actually the same for
all of the these different remix apps.
And for each exercise,
we actually remove a feature and
your job is to add it back in.
And so, we're going to explore this and
your instructions will be in the README
file where we have some background
information for you to read and reference.
And then, some information on
the exercises specifics of what you're
supposed to do,
what your job is to accomplish in here.
And then, we have the files that you're
gonna be working in and inside of each
of those files, for example,
the app, the double underscore app.
We didn't actually talk about this
in the fundamentals' workshop, but
this is the convention in the file system.
So I want to have a special layout for all
of the components under this directory.
So I wanna have a parent layout that
has like my form and this nav and
everything, but I don't want
a segment in the URL for that, okay?
I don't want that.
I don't want a double
underscore app slash anywhere,
I just wanted this to be @ slash.
And so that's that's what that convention
is all about, if we go into invoices,
invoice ID.
And then, you can scroll down, and
you'll find Kody, the Koala, who will give
you the instructions on where you're
supposed to be making changes to code.
For some of these exercises, there's
actually not a lot of changes to be made,
but most of your time should be spent
experimenting in the browser and seeing
the difference in what changes happen when
you make the changes that you're making.
And then, we have this elaboration and
feedback at the bottom here.
You can submit feedback to me
on the exercise specifically.
And what's more important is that
you do this elaboration piece and
whether you elaborate on what you learned,
like you just write it in your own words.
Whether you elaborate on what
you learned in this form or
in the note section at the top of each of
these READMEs, it doesn't matter to me, or
you could do it in your
own note-taking app.
The important thing is that, for
your retention, you need to be able to
rewrite or just kind of explain in your
own words, what it is that you learned,
and that process is what solidifies
your learning in your head.
The other thing that I'll just mention
is that my approach to teaching
has changed over the years.
I used to just say okay follow
along with me, turns out because,
I have the curse of knowledge and
I do this a lot.
I'm really fast, and
it was hard for people to keep up.
So, then I went to okay,
let me do it, and now you do it.
And that did not help with retention.
I even said I'll do a similar example,
and you'll do a different,
one still did not help with retention.
So, what helps with retention is for
me to throw you into the ocean,
give you a life jacket and have you
struggled for a little bit on this.
And the life jacket is this
background information and so, and
links to docs and things like that.
And with that,
you hopefully have enough to be able to
struggle in an effective way so
that when I come back and go through it,
you'll have all the questions in your
mind answered as I go through it.
And if I don't answer all those questions,
then we'll have an opportunity to ask and
answer questions at
the end of every exercise.
That is how things work from a high level.
Now from a technical level,
to get each one of these apps running
you're going to use the these two
scripts it is the dev scripts and
then the diff scripts, so
let me demonstrate both of those.
So from the root you can say node
dev to run the dev script and
this will ask you which
app you want to start.
You can start any of the exercises,
any of the finals and the example.
And so, if I select the exercise
the first exercise,
then this will tell me that my
app has started on port 4,001.
The final always starts on port 5,000.
And then each exercise or
the port will be the number of
the exercise plus the 4,000 or 5,000.
So you always know that you're on
the right out based on what the port is.
And then, we'll log in this workshop,
you're going to need to
log in every time you go to a different
exercise, you'll need to log in.
So the username and
password you can find in the seed script
that's in the Prisma slash seed.ts.
That's the user that we seed into
the database when we set things up,
but the username is kody@remix.run,
and the password is kodylovesyou.
So because kody does love you, so remix
are run, kody loves you, and then login.
And this is the app that
we're gonna be working with.
It's not completely built out.
So if you go to some of these,
they were working on this together, right?
We're in the middle of building this.
We're gonna finish it.
We're gonna sell it to QuickBooks and
make silly amounts of money.
Maybe, I don't know, but
the invoices customers and
deposits pages are mostly finished.
And we're like I said,
this app is finished, and
then each exercise removes a feature that
you're responsible for adding back in.
So, that is the dev script.
You can also be a little faster if
you just say the exercise number.
You can also say if you want to run
the final, then you just prefix it with
final and then a number, however you want
to do that as quickly as you prefer.
And then, if you get totally stuck,
and you're working on it.
You're like I'm pretty sure I have exactly
what he has in the finished version,
then you can actually find a diff
between the finished version and
yours by running node diff.
And then the exercise number or
just written no diff, and
it will allow you to choose
which one to compare to.
And this will just take a diff
of what's in the app directory.
So that should be enough to get us going,
yeah?
>> Was testing on that list?
>> Yes, testing is not in this list.
Testing would be an entire
workshop by itself.
So, but I can address testing
with remix really briefly.
So testing clearly like I have,
the testing course here on frontend
masters talks about principles
as well as testing with React.
And so, testing is clearly something
that's important to me in remix,
all of the stacks that we talked
about in the fundamentals course,
those stacks come
pre-configured with testing.
And they have Vitest setup for
your unit testing and
Cypress set up for
your end-to-end testing.
The integration testing piece
of like component integration is
currently there's not a great story for
that because Remix components require
providers that we don't expose.
And so, there's not a good way to render a
component that renders a link for example.
And so, currently the solution for
that is to mock out the link component.
And it's not a great solution, but
that's that's what I would recommend,
that's the simplest thing.
In the very near future,
when the remix router is released,
we can start working on testing utilities
that will provide all of that stuff for
you, it'd be a lot easier.
But yeah, right now that is the story.
I should mention also that loaders and
actions are actually pretty easy to test
relative to what you might be used to
because you're literally just calling
a function with a couple arguments and
asserting on it, it's output.
So I can't think of too many things
that are easier to test with from
a backhand perspective.
Of course, you may need to
mock a database and stuff, but
that's how you do backend testing.
So yeah,
the trickiest bit is just the components
that use remix components in them.
And for now,
you'll just mock the those things out.
In the future,
we'll have better utilities for that.
So thanks for asking and
yes in the future we will have a course
on testing remix apps for sure.
>> If you have an existing Express app,
how would you go about adding remix into
the application without
having to rewrite everything?
>> Yeah, that's a great question.
Not necessarily related
to what we have here, but
I will briefly give you
an idea of what I would do.
I would say, npx create remix,
and when you generate this
project say just the basics and
choose Express server and
use TypeScript or JavaScript,
whichever you prefer.
I'll just say no here, and
we'll cd into to my remix app,
just to take a look at this.
And you'll see we have a server.js
that is using Express that will
show you how to integrate
remix with Express.
It's literally just this.
There's some helper stuff here
like this purge require cache.
So you don't have to restart your server
every time you change code on the backend,
which is kind of nice, actually.
But yes, so if you have an existing
Express app, I would just look at this.
This is actually there's a template
that you could just look at that code on
GitHub that generates this project.
And then, you can integrate
this on a route-by-route basis.
So over time, you just move more routes
into remix until they're all remix.
And that's actually, kind of,
similar to the way that I would do
a migration from a create react app thing
or anything that's using react router.
You just over time move things over, and
we actually do have a migration guide
on the remix docs for
migrating from create react app or some,
like you're on web pack
thing over to remix.
And we're gonna have even better
answers for that in the future as well.